Add ADR 0040 - Display front cover for books in Preview Panel (#12122)
JabRef/jabref: docs/decisions/0040-display-front-cover-in-preview-tab.md

---
parent: Decision Records
nav_order: 40
---

# Display front cover for book citations in the Preview tab

## Context and Problem Statement

* Users have requested that the front covers of book citations are displayed in JabRef.
* This is discussed on the [JabRef forum](https://discourse.jabref.org/t/display-cover-images-for-books/3647) and raised as a [feature request](https://github.com/JabRef/jabref/issues/10120).
* We need to decide where the book cover should be placed.

## Decision Drivers

* It should not be obtrusive or distracting since the main use of JabRef is for articles not books.
* It should not obstruct the view of existing GUI components, specifically the MainTable or the information in the EntryEditor's tabs.

## Considered Options

Place the book cover in:

1. the existing SidePane
2. a new SidePane
3. the Preview panel of the EntryEditor
4. a SplitPane next to the MainTable

## Decision Outcome

> Chosen option: "3. The PreviewPanel of the EntryEditor".

Reviewer: Remove 3.

## Pros and Cons of the Options

> ### 1. Existing SidePane

Reviewer: Omit numbers in the headings. Remove them.

> ![Image: Placement in SidePane](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/7f704b0c-6f0c-4501-8167-4dc6202ca8f6)

Reviewer: Please store the image in the repository, too.

Name it 0040-placement-sidepane.png. Do it for the others accordingly. (if it is jpg, use jpg as file extension)

Author: Should I put it in the docs/decisions folder?

Reviewer: Yes. With the filename prefix `0040-*`, it will sorted next to the ADR.

Reviewer: @damgam0288 I am still waiting for the images.

Author: I noticed that there's another ADR number 0040 - do you want me to change this ADR and the associated images to 0041 and then upload?

Author: Have uploaded them now

Reviewer: @damgam0288 You also need to change all image links. That means, instead of github.com ..., the respective file should be referenced.

Author: sorry! I missed that. Have updated now.

* Good, because it would be unobtrusive
* Bad, because it would crowd other panels in the SidePane
* Bad, because changing the size of the SidePane would [affect both the MainTable and the EntryEditor](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/06a8d35b-1bbc-4066-b92b-44b908656cdf).

### 2. New right-sided SidePane

* Good, if integrated together with entry preview because it would make it [easier to view a citation's preview](https://github.com/JabRef/jabref/issues/10120#issuecomment-2422099269).

> * Bad, because an extra SidePane would [make the interface overly complex](https://github.com/JabRef/jabref/issues/10120#issuecomment-2422677378).

Reviewer: Place the image before this list. Also for the other images.

### 3. The PreviewPanel of the EntryEditor

![Image: Placement in the Preview Panel](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/68b9065b-bac6-412b-9815-7d27d2fbe0be)

* Good, because it would not be obtrusive or distracting.

> * Bad, because users will have to click multiple times (enable preview tab, open entry editor) to see the book cover.

Reviewer 2: I would not include a one-time configurable preference option here. Only if the default behaviour is a major problem.

Reviewer: The "bad" describes "only" the case if users do not have the entry preview opened.

```suggestion
* Bad, because coupled to the preview, which is coupled to the entry editor: In case the entry editor is closed, users will have to open the entry editor and navigate to the tab "Preview" or "Requried fields".
```

I think @damgam0288 did not see that the entry preview is embedded in the tab "Required fields"

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/b30145b5-3384-49d2-a51a-460b465caa63)
